This is a directory for shell,variables,expansions,aliases,etc
A detailed description of shell variables expansions Learning Objectives At the end of this project, you are expected to be able to explain to anyone, without the help of Google: General What happens when you type $ ls -l .txt Shell Initialization Files What are the /etc/profile file and the /etc/profile.d directory What is the ~/.bashrc file Variables What is the difference between a local and a global variable What is a reserved variable How to create, update and delete shell variables What are the roles of the following reserved variables: HOME, PATH, PS1 What are special parameters What is the special parameter $?? Expansions What is expansion and how to use them What is the difference between single and double quotes and how to use them properly How to do command substitution with $() and backticks Shell Arithmetic How to perform arithmetic operations with the shell The alias Command How to create an alias How to list aliases How to temporarily disable an alias Other help pages How to execute commands from a file in the current shell Requirements General Allowed editors: vi, vim, emacs All your scripts will be tested on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS All your scripts should be exactly two lines long ($ wc -l file should print 2) All your files should end with a new line (why?) The first line of all your files should be exactly #!/bin/bash A README.md file, at the root of the folder of the project, describing what each script is doing You are not allowed to use &&, || or ; You are not allowed to use bc, sed or awk All your files must be executable More Info Read your /etc/profile, /etc/inputrc and ~/.bashrc files. Look at some files in the /etc/profile.d directory. Note: You do not have to learn about awk, tar, bzip2, date, scp, ulimit, umask, or shell scripting, yet. What each of the scripts does: #!/bin/bash (which is always the first line) instructs the operating system to use bash as a command interpreter. alias ls="rm " creates an alias with name "ls" and value "rm" echo "hello $USER" Prints hello user, where user is the current Linux user. PATH=$PATH:/action Adds /action to the PATH. /action should be the last directory the shell looks into when looking for a program echo $PATH | tr ":" "\n" | wc -l Counts the number of the directories in the PATH printenv Lists environment variables set Lists all local variables and environment variables, and functions. BEST="School" Creates a new local variable named BEST with a value "School". export BEST="School" Creates a new global variable named "BEST" with a value "School". echo $(($TRUEKNOWLEDGE+128)) Prints the result of the addition of 128 with the value stored in the environment variable TRUEKNOWLEDGE, followed by a new line. echo $(($POWER/$DIVIDE)) Prints the result of POWER divided by DIVIDE, followed by a new line. echo $(($BREATH*$LOVE)) Displays the result of BREATH to the power LOVE. echo $((2#$BINARY)) Converts a number from base 2 to base 10. echo {a..z}{a..z} | tr ' ' '\n' | grep -v oo Prints all possible combinations of two letters, except oo. printf "%0.2f\n" $NUM Prints a number with two decimal places. The number is stored in the environment variable NUM. printf "%x\n" $DECIMAL Converts a number from base 10 to base 16. tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m' Encodes and decodes text using the rot13 encryption paste -d" " - - | cut -d " " -f 1 Prints every other line from the input, starting with the first line echo ((((5#(echo ((5#$(echo $STIR | tr 'stir.' '01234'))))) | tr '01234567' 'bestchol') Adds the two numbers stored in the environment variables WATER and STIR and prints the result.
